president walton very good uh i'm trying to recall
i don't remember the president being very close to
the student body at that time we were there was a
buffer i guess you could say the military of course
i didn't mention them previously but they played a
big role in uh the core life and sort of
administered the core at that time. So you didn't
see President Walton, your students didn't much?
No, no. I remember one incident that...
I can't recall the exact details, but I was at a
meeting one evening with a group of students of
some type, I don't know, agricultural students
maybe, that met with him, and he talked to us, and I
was really impressed. He was an excellent
speaker, I thought, and seemed to have good
understanding of the institution, and my
impression at that age was very good, and I
remember Earl Rutter saying when he was a student
here, they referred to the president as the Prexy.
Was that still common when you got here? I believe
that's right. And there was a light up on top of the
academic building, a light globe that they called
Prexy's Moon, and he said that you would try to
shoot it out with your core rifle. I recall that now
that you mention it. I don't remember... anyone in
our area trying to do the shooting that I recall,
but that was part of it. Just had another thought,
but it's already slipped my mind. Well, you know,
Dr. Walton was removed from the presidency
shortly after I was here as a student. I think it was
during the war, perhaps, early 40s. I'm I'm sure
you know the time on it. I heard this story at the
time after he had been removed. You know he became
postmaster at College Station. You may have heard
this. He lived on the south side of the campus and
he'd always drive around the campus. He never
would go through the campus anymore after he'd
been let out as president and was now postmaster.
Those two undergraduate years, what did you and
your friends do for a good time at Texas A&M on, say,
a Saturday night? Leave town, if possible. And how
did you get to Houston when you left town? Catch
rides. The highway would be full starting Friday
after 1 o'clock. You heard the old story, saw I'm
sure about, had a court trip to hell, we'd want to
leave early. And normally how long did it take you
hitchhiking to Houston? That depends. If you were
fortunate, two and a half hours. It could take five
or six. And going, coming back sometimes is even
worse because there's always a question, where do
you go in Houston to catch a ride back. Where was the
best place to catch a ride in Houston? Well, we
usually got out on Hampstead Highway there off
19th
Street used to run out. Hempstead Highway, and of
course, I was still going home at the time, and my
parents lived in the Heights, which was fairly
near to that particular location. And if you
caught a ride there, you're bound to get almost to
get to Hempstead at least. And you would
certainly, coming back, you would certainly wear
your uniform. Oh, yes. That was a key item to
getting around? Absolutely. Well, you'd have it
on actually then. And we'd go to Dallas-Fort
Worth. Also, you talk about entertainment and so
forth, it's fairly common to go to Denton to what
was then TSCW, I believe it was called. And I've
been up there a fair number of weekends along with a
lot of other Aggies. Do you have any hitchhiking
anecdotes
None come to mind just immediately. No.
Did you ever have any bad experience hitchhiking?
No. I never. I never interviewed a single person
who did. Well, the uniform was great, and I don't
remember a specific anecdote, but the people
would pick you up. You were just friends right away
and have a conversation with them. They were.
happy to pick you up and take you wherever you were.
If you were not going to leave town, what did you and
your friends do for a good time? Well, there were
dances in the spring that we would go to
intermittently, and there's a place called
Hardlickers out here, I guess you've heard of it,
that was south of the campus. It was a refuge if you
didn't have anything else to do. Now, Mr.
Hardlaker served what kind of beverages?
I believe beer was the only alcoholic beverage
allowed at that time. Of course, he had all the soft
drinks, and I believe they even served a little
food out there. Was there a careful check on the age
of anyone buying a beer at Mr. Hardlaker's? I can
never remember any. And do you remember Aggies
getting drunk much?
Well, I can certainly remember it, yes.
There wasn't much restraint on drinking. It
didn't seem to me. But whiskey was a rare
commodity, wasn't it? Because this was a dry
county for whiskey. Yes, but I... I wouldn't call
it rare. Oh, really? It depended on the situation.
Like if there were special weekends or events,
there'd be some around. Would they have brought
that from home? To some extent, although there
were two or three liquor stores right across the
river that made a fortune, I suppose. Did you all
call it Whiskey Bridge then? I believe so. I was
trying to think just what the reference was to that
location, but I believe there's a store right
across the Brazzers where 60 is and also out on 21.
The
young ladies came for these dances. How were those
young women treated at an Aggie dance? With
respect, I would say, yes. And
I've had girls up for the dances, and not as many as
some of the students would have one every weekend
they'd have a dance if they were going steady with
some girl from Austin or TSCW or Houston or Dallas.
And the girls usually stayed in local homes
around. In fact, well, this is getting ahead, but
Later on, we had a home south of college where we
kept girls nearly every weekend in the spring.
Many of the faculty lived on campus in that era.
That is correct. So there was a true community
there on the campus of family and students and so
forth. like I've heard the two Cashin boys
describe their experiences growing up on the
campus.
Where was there near the campus that you could walk
to buy something? Northgate. What was that
described Northgate in that era? Two drugstores
is the main thing I remember. One was Lipscomb's
Drugstore, and it would have been on... northwest
corner and uh i believe they call the other one the
aggie land pharmacy on the right corner and then
there was hollick's boot store and uh cleaners
down the the college avenue part there and i
believe walter had a store there at the north gate
And a jeweler, I think, and just three or four. Was
the campus theater open in those days?
I don't believe so by 38. Oh, yes, that's something
I should have known. We went in the assembly hall,
and it was a wooden building. I think they said it
was built during World War I, right after World War
I in that period. uh... fire hazard if there ever
was one just totally would and i think smoking was
prohibited in it uh... but it was a real danger and i
guess it wasn't torn down until the current chapel
was built which i guess was soon after world war two
but at entertainment we went to shows a lot they
were just i think they just had them saturdays and
maybe sundays and Maybe Wednesday night, I've
forgotten. But you'd usually go to one or two shows
a week. Do you have some memories you can share of
some Aggie good bull? Some pranks, some jokes?
Well, I'm hard-pressed right at the moment. That
airing out thing was an experience. I thought that
justified telling.
Oh, yes, thank you. I couldn't think of that term
while ago. Yes, in the spring particularly as it
began to warm up a little, there was a lot of
drowning out and I don't recall just what
different occasions were used as somewhat of an
excuse or a reason to do this, but that was kind of a
challenge and as I recall, it usually started
drowning out the fish and then then they'd be
instructed to go drown out Mr. So-and-so or this
one or another. And that was one way some of the
cadets got even with some of the others they didn't
think so much of. But that went on quite a lot in the
spring months. And to get started, there was just
no end to it. The whole battery would be drowned
out. Did anybody ever attempt any pranks on a
faculty member or a staff member?
I can't honestly recall any
in class or out.
I don't know if this is an anecdote or not, but one of
the faculty members I do recall being somewhat
eccentric was Dr. Humbert. Eugene Humbert in the
genetics department, and he had several
requirements of his students, and actually he
didn't. He was not the best teacher in a strict
sense, but he was strict and did insist you read
your lesson, but he required you to bring your book
to class, and you had to wear Socks rolled up so that
your socks reached your trousers.
I've forgotten. He had one or two other little
quirks that he insisted on, and I recall one
incident during the semester when something
upset him a little. Anyway, he got a little mad
about something, and he said, All right. How many
people brought their books to class today? There
were about three kids. All right, the rest of you
can go home. And he just emptied the old classroom
right there. But he would do that, that sort of
thing. As far as you recall, what was the typical
attitude of the A&M student body then about going
to class?
Did you all go to class regularly?
Freshmen did. They had to be punished if they
didn't, if somebody found it out. My recollection
is the higher up you went in school, the less
concerned you were about going to class. I can
always remember the architect students. We had
several of them in our battery, and our captain was
an architect. student I bet I was in school two
months before I ever saw him they'd go up there
after dinner at night about seven or eight o'clock
and stayed till two or three or I don't know. They
were up there all night. And man, they wouldn't get
up till noon. That's true. I didn't even know. They
kept saying, well, Captain, I think his name was
J.W. Floor, was the battery commander. I never had
seen the fella. And when I finally saw him, I didn't
know who he was. But that was one unusual element of
the class situation or attendance situation. I'd
say the juniors and seniors, I'd say, were less
committed to going to class consistently, but
freshmen sure attended. Coming from a minister's
family, you should be able to describe the
religious activities at A&M at that period.
I almost started to say slamming none, but it's
been unfair. No, that's really not correct. There
was not a lot of organized religious activity day
to day and week to week. There were the local
churches available, and I did go along with some of
the other students to the Presbyterian Church,
and we would have a meeting Sunday nights that
Reverend Anderson conducted. Describe that
congregation during those years, and who were
some of the notable members? You're talking about
the church congregation.
It was small, I'd say, ordinary attendance, and we
met in, the Presbyterian congregation met in the
Y, YMCA, and I guess there were probably 100 to 150
probably in attendance, and that's about all the
chapel there would hold, and mostly local people.
There'd be I guess the student attendance varied
from I'm going to say 20 to 40, something like that,
the regular services. There were quite a few of the
faculty that attended the preb here in church that
you'd know. Bolton was one of them, Dean Bolton.
and D.W. Williams, who was quite prominent. And,
let's see, I guess he'd become, he was Chancellor
of Agriculture, I remember, I don't, I remember
just how. Cashians. And the Cashians, of course,
yeah, certainly. And, um, Then there were some
department heads. Guy Adrian, are you familiar
with him? He was head of horticulture. Ross
Sherwood, he was in the experiment station in the
animal science area.
President Morgan also attended there when he was,
well, that's later on. Describe Brother Anderson
as the minister. describe him in personality
and so forth and style? He was a Scotchman and quite
definite in his concepts and statements and
he was I'd say conscientious and committed to his
role as a minister. His
of appeal was perhaps not as great as one might
expect
from a student standpoint of the type of
individual that would appeal most to students at
that age.
Colonel Anderson was also a member of that
company, wasn't he? He sure was. Thank you. These
names just don't come up. If you can jog my memory,
it helps. Yes, he and his wife, Helen Anderson, who
was quite a delightful lady, were members. And I
always remember and have high regard for Colonel,
we called him Colonel Andy at the time. He was the
commandant just for a couple of years, as I recall.
But one of the years that I was an undergraduate
here, And I have forgotten the incident, but these
kind of things used to occur, not constantly, but
occasionally if some disagreement or the Corps
got upset about something, they didn't march on
the house like they did with Gilchrist later. But
anyway, Colonel Landy was commandant, and he was
on the other side of the argument with the Corps.
And he was, I thought, treated unreasonably.
He'd come out there during this particular
period, I recall, come out and stand in the center
of the campus there as the representation of
authority, and he was either booed or mistreated.
He just happened to be on the other side. He was
insisting on probably some adherence to some
regulation or rule, and the cadets, of course,
weren't always too enthused about that. But I
think he was generally well-liked, but he did get
crossways with his students sometimes. You all
had a Presbyterian Sunday night activity. Right.
Was there also a worship service on Sunday night?
No, I don't recall there being. Oh, one thing I
wanted to include about the religious part that
I'd overlooked that did illustrate, demonstrate
the interest of the institution in religious
activities. And that was the, I've forgotten the
name they had for it, but it was a week of Christian
ministry. Religious emphasis week. RE week,
yeah. And each
major denomination would have one of their
renowned pastors from somewhere in the United
States come. And then there'd be one major speaker
who would speak to the cadet corps every morning at
10 o'clock, I'll say, in Guyon Hall. And it'd be
Phil. It really would be. And these were
outstanding people. And if you ask me who one of
them was, I can remember one. Lewis Evans was here
one time. But I I can't remember the names of the
others, but it was quite an important event, and I
don't know whether they'd be allowed to do that
sort of thing nowadays. I'm afraid so, but it
really was a great occasion, and the thing that
impressed me about it, looking back at that time,
was the students responded. There was good
attendance, and then at the individual
churches... there would be attendance. As I
recall, using Presbyterian for example since
that's the one I'm familiar with, we'd have a
speaker from somewhere large congregation
throughout the country and he would speak each
night at the local congregation and we'd have both
students and members or the public invited as far
as that goes. Did y'all go to a Wednesday, was there
a Wednesday night of service? I cannot remember
that there was. I don't, I remember the evening
services, but I think they're on, just on Sunday
evenings. Now there might be on occasion special
call meetings, you know, Wednesday night. Do you
remember going to football games that first year
up here?
Yes, I can't remember a lot of detail about them,
except we stood up all the time, which I soon
learned that part of it. And I believe I went to most
of them, and surprisingly I had somewhat mixed
emotions that first year when we played Rice. I
couldn't quite get over the fact that I almost
favored Rice at the time, having been there for
some years. And if I recall, that was when Rice had
some pretty good teams along in there. I think they
went to Cotton Bowl one year along in there, 37 or
38. What about court trips? Did you make court
trips? Yes.
As I recall, there would be just one or two in the
fall, though. And I remember one... Well, we
always had a court trip when we played in Austin,
and I remember going there, and I remember
marching down Congress, whatever avenue we
marched, and that's about all of it I can remember
at this time. I think we had one in Houston and
probably one in Dallas during that period of time.
Do you remember going to Silver Taps? What
impression did that make?
I thought it was a great tradition. It surely did.
And very moving and impressive. It had an impact on
the core, on the students, I believe. What about
Bonfire in that era?
Well, I can't separate it from 60 years of Bonfire
very well. Well, I haven't been here all that time,
but I can recall Bonfire, but I'm almost certain it
was after I graduated. A number of people have told
me that before World War II, it was primarily a
collection of rubbish, trash. Oh, that part. I
think about the occasion itself. it was nothing
like these monumental things that are built now
and, uh, would have, would just be a big, big
bonfire. That's about all you could say of it. Not
a, I certainly don't. Uh, I'm not sure that I did.
Uh, But it was, you know, you didn't have to
requisition half the cadet corps to spend three
weeks or whatever length of time. It now has been a
recent experience, and I don't know just where
that all came in, but it was not an activity that
totally, or say totally, or significantly
disrupted student life for a while where there
was, I don't know how many, thousand, I guess, of
man and woman hours put in on it now, but I don't
recall anything of that nature back then. I guess I
do, I just recall the event and the football
players getting up and making a few comments. Now,
I'm assuming since you were, those undergraduate
years were the fall of 36, you graduated in the
spring of 38. That's correct, in June. I'm
assuming that since World War II hadn't started
yet, that you all didn't think that much about what
was happening on the other side of the world.
You weren't worried yet about World War II? During
that 36 to 38? No, I would say that wasn't a big
factor, although I guess by the time I graduated in
the spring of 38... There was, I'd say, some
realization of it, and the students were much more
interested in being sure they got a commission
financially and otherwise, but there was a good
deal of competition for it, and all the students
who performed reasonably well were able to get
commissions at that time, and I believe quite a few
went on into the service after graduation in 1938.
Right now... Did you have any, was there any
awkwardness in your getting an Aggie senior rank?
No, I don't recall any. I want to be sure and include
this comment. I may have given a totally negative
impression of coming in here as a transfer. I was
treated very considerably by the Corps members as
an individual, them as individuals, me as an
individual. It was just a situation you just
didn't fit in anywhere precisely, and... That was
just part of it, but individually, whether they
were seniors or freshmen or what, they treated
me... Did you acquire a nickname? I was called
Johnny, if that's a... But nothing else? No, not
these real exotic nicknames. Not Cotton Topper?
Topper. Arkansas.
There's one thing I want to mention. I don't know
whether this... occurred right after I
graduated. I
just went to two years in the spring of 38. I was
taking mainly senior courses then. Are
you familiar with the Cotton Tour? Well, in the
30s, it was, I think, originated in the early 30s,
perhaps. By 38, this is probably the 8th or 10th
tour, I don't recall which, but it had been started
primarily by Professor Mogford, who was the
cotton expert and thought it would be a great thing
to publicize the university and to reward
students and get information out on the the major
crop of the state at that time and of course the
primary force in agriculture almost then. So he
originated this cotton tour I'm going to say about
1930 probably. And the concept was that there
would be examinations given over different
phases of cotton production and development and
so forth. And these were somewhat difficult exams
and were given during the spring and were open for
competition by any students and I entered the
competition without any thought of winning since
well one I hadn't been there all four years so I
didn't think I'd absorbed as much as some of the
others would have but anyway we went through the
spring taking these exams I think once a week say
they'd be cotton pathology and entomology and
production and breeding and spinning and all
those things. Believe it or not, I was one of the
winners. There were three, just three winners. In
retrospect, particularly, that was probably the
greatest award you could have received from A&M as
far as actual benefit. We managed a 10-week paid
tour during the summer immediately after taking
the exams and those who had qualified. So that was a
real privilege and something I'll always
remember. This is right after you graduated?
Right immediately afterward.
anticipating marriage at the time. I don't know
whether you knew Margaret or not. She probably
passed away just before you came back here. Summer
of 97, I guess. Anyway, we had been going.